A way that we might modify
this program now is to
transform the data before we print it out.
So a fun thing that we
might be able to do is
maybe we want to convert those
chunks of data to uppercase.
That's a really simple kind of
transformation that we could do.
So for that example, we're gonna
use a module called through2 and
we're gonna insert it into our pipeline.
So, we have the readableStream,
was the first part of our pipeline, and
the final part was to print out
the data to standard output.
And now we're gonna insert
this part in the middle so
you call through with write function,
or an in function that's optional.
And the write function is
going to transform each chunk.
So let's just write that out.
Modifier program.
Maybe I'll call it a loud.js because
it's going to uppercase things.
So we require the through2 package.
And now we pipe to through and we're going
to have a right function that's going to.
So with the function that
you provide to through and
this is also true if you use
the core transform stream method.
You get these three arguments
buffer encoding, and next.
Buffer is a node.js buffer object,
which is kind of like
a binary representation
of data that's coming in.
Encoding, you can just ignore encoding.
I don't think that I've ever
used that option in any program,
maybe like once that's it.
And then the next function is what you
call when you want the next piece of data.
So there's two ways to write out how
you want the output to be formatted.
The first way I'll show you
is to call the next function.
The first parameter that you pass
the next function is going to be
an error object if you have one.
So this is similar to
the node,js callback convention.
Where are the err back where the air
is the first argument to a function,
so we're going to call it with null
because we don't have an error.
The next piece is the piece
of data that we want to send
out on our transform stream.
So if we convert that buffer object to a
string, then we can call that touppercase.
And in this way of dealing
with transform streams,
the output has to be a buffer or a string.
So this should give us a string of output,
so that should work.
Okay, question.
>> I just don't quite understand
why you couldn't just do the to
string like pipe in that directly instead
of going through the hole through.
>> Why you couldn't pipe
tostring in directly?
>> [COUGH] Yeah like you got your files,
and then you just like,
do like a dot pipe kind of make us up,
I don't know but like to upper, and
that like does that I don't know what
the through gets us that's the question.
>> The through is gonna
turn this function into
a stream into a transformed
stream in particular.
>> Okay.
>> We could write it that way.
Maybe you're thinking about this,
like if we had a two upper function, and
we instantiate it, and
then we have a function to upper, and
we could return through with that function
that would be another way that we could
write it if that makes more sense.
But through is going to take these
functions that we provide that can
act on our data, and
it builds a stream out of those functions.
But both of these are fine
ways to write it.
It just kind of depends on what
your needs are in particular.
>> Keep in mind it's working on
a chunk of data, not the whole file.
>> Yeah.
>> So these chunks also
can be arbitrarily sized.
So you can't really have
in this case shouldn't have
assumptions about the size of the data or
how that data is going to be broken up.
Because, things, it could have new lines,
or maybe it doesn't or,
things can be spaced, it could be a single
byte, or they could be kilobytes.
That's not really that's more up to
the operating system in this case than
it is to your program.
There are ways of chunking data that
are streaming transforms which we'll
get into some of those.
But if you deal with input, then
the chunk sizes aren't really up to you.
So you have to deal with them yourself.
>> So anytime we want to modify
the stream we need to use through and
then do whatever it is that we want to do?
>> Yeah, you can use through or you can
use some of the other userland modules, or
you can use core streams.
I've got an example of using core
streams I like to use through it's
kind of just what I have a habit of using
but the, so the stream requires stream
transform method is actually a lot
more ergonomic than it used to be.
So you could also use that if you like.
Okay, so there's a question in the chat,
is it suggested to use nodes built in
modules are usually in NPM packages.
So I would say generally
that I think it's better to
use the userland packages
because they're just nicer.
There's kind of like less boilerplate.
They're less particular and I tend myself
to use the user land stuff a lot more.
And when I do use the core modules,
I actually don't tend to require a stream.
I tend to require the readable stream
package from NPM because that way,
you don't have this implicit
peer dependency on node core,
because node core can change things and
they've done that and
they've broken my packages, and
I didn't like that very much.
But when you use a userland package like
readable stream, and all of these, well,
most of these userland
packages like through2
depend on the readable stream package.
And behind the scenes,
they don't require a stream.
Then you actually have explicit
versioning control so you don't have to
worry about either like the next version
of node breaking your package and
you don't have to worry about people
in different versions of node
who have like different versions
of the stream interfacing core.
This is kind of a general pattern that I
think works a lot better, especially over
time is to use userland packages that
have semver because otherwise, like,
who knows what version of stream you get
from node core, it's whatever is there.
So, okay, so
if you people wanna try this out,
you can change this program
in different ways too.
You might make it lowercase or
you could replace all a's with at signs or
something with that replace.
But let's just run this program
to make sure that it works.
Oops, right, so we have to give it
a program as input or a file as input.
So if I run that program with our file,
indeed it converts it to uppercase.
Another fun way that we might change our
programme is maybe instead of reading
from a file,
we can read from standard input.
So, if you read from standard input then
the input of your programme doesn't
have to be a file it could actually be
the output of another programme which
is sometimes a lot more useful.
So we can just take this piece right
here and replace it with process.stdin.
Now if we run the program now
it's gonna sit and wait for
us to type stuff in on the keyboard so
I can type hi.
Hello, Types in gibberish
on the command line and
it indeed buffers everything up.
Could also use,
could pipe the input of a file into it and
now is allowed version of our program
we just typed, it's kinda fun.